---
title: Embedded Systems
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Embedded Systems

The embedded systems team is responsible for the integration of hardware and
software on the robots. Our goal is to establish a robust network of communication
between the electronic systems which control the motors and other actuators of
the system and the software which controls the high-level decision making for
the robot.

UC San Diego IEEE Student Branch 6

Team TritonsRCSC

## 4.1 ESP32

A major change we implemented this year was moving our Body-to-Wheel velocity
calculations to an ESP32 rather than a Raspberry Pi. Previously, each robot
had an onboard Raspberry Pi that acted as a UDP server to receive data sent
from the TritonSoccerAI client. Our new system uses ESP32s on each robot that
act as the UDP servers to receive data from TritonSoccerAI and perform the
velocity calculations. This change was made primarily due to the high overhead
and power consumption of Raspberry Pis [5]. Our robot could not remain active
for the full 5-minute half of a RoboCup match, and we needed to improve the
overall power usage of the bot. A Raspberry Pi 4B will consume 540 mA (2.7 W)
of power in an idle state. An ESP32 in Active Mode, receiving data, will draw
from 95-100 mA (0.33 W) of power [6]. While the power consumption was our
central reason for switching microcontrollers, the simplicity of the ESP32s made
them far more behaved and easier to work with, and it was a very beneficial
switch.

We are using ESP32 Development Boards with a USB Type-C connector and
a CH340C USB to serial converter. The board works with an ESP32-WROOM-32
module. Each board is mounted on a robot and acts as a UDP server, receiving
instructions about both movement and the kicker. The movement instructions
are in the form of a vector in the global space, which the ESP32 converts into
individual RPMs for each of the 4 wheels. The kicker instructions take the form
of a flag, on or off, corresponding to whether the robot should be kicking or not.

The ESP32s receive the Protobuf data, decode it using deserialization code
generated by Nanopb, convert global velocities into wheel speeds, and then send
that data to our RoboMaster Type A Development board, which controls the
motors and PID loop. For the velocity conversions, congruent math libraries exist
in Python and C++, and minor error fixes were made. The Espressif Systems
ESP32 Library has robust functionality for sending data via UART, so the ESP32
code ended up being more concise than the original Python code on the Raspberry
Pi.

## 4.2 Other Hardware

The other important hardware components used by the embedded systems team
are RoboMaster Type A Development boards with an STM32 chip, RoboMaster
C610 Brushless DC Motor Speed Controllers, and DJI RoboMaster M2006 P36
Brushless Motors. The ESP32 receives data from TritonSoccerAI, processes it,
and sends it to the RM Dev Board which sends speed values to the Motor Speed
Controllers and performs PID tuning.

UC San Diego IEEE Student Branch
